docs(k8s): add tutorial whoami app (#5410)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/deploy-demo-application-kubernetes-kapsule/index.mdx

---
title: Deploying a demo application on Scaleway Kubernetes Kapsule
description: This page shows you how to deploy a demo application on Scaleway Kubernetes Kapsule
tags: Kubernetes Kapsule k8S
products:
  - kubernetes
dates:
  validation: 2025-08-13
  posted: 2025-08-13
  validation_frequency: 12
---
import Requirements from '@macros/iam/requirements.mdx'

> # Deploy an Intermediate Workload on Scaleway Kubernetes Kapsule

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Deploy an intermediate workload on Scaleway Kubernetes Kapsule
```

This tutorial is designed for users with a basic understanding of Kubernetes concepts like pods, deployments, services, and ingress.

<Requirements />

- [Owner](/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization
- A [Scaleway API key](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/console/my-account/how-to/create-api-keys/) for details.
- Installed tools: `kubectl`, `scw` and `helm` on your local computer
- Basic familiarity with Kubernetes concepts (Pods, Deployments, Services, Ingress).

## Configure Scaleway CLI

Configure the [Scaleway CLI (v2)](https://github.com/scaleway/scaleway-cli) to manage your Kubernetes Kapsule cluster.

1. Install the Scaleway CLI (if not already installed):

   ```bash
   curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/scaleway/scaleway-cli/master/scripts/get.sh | sh
   ```

2. Initialize the CLI with your API key:

   ```bash
   scw init
   ```

>    Follow the prompts to enter your `SCW_ACCESS_KEY`, `SCW_SECRET_KEY`, and select a default region (e.g., `pl-waw` for Warsaw, Poland).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Follow the prompts to enter your `SCW_ACCESS_KEY`, `SCW_SECRET_KEY`, and default region (e.g., `pl-waw` for Warsaw, Poland).
```

   ```

   - `version=1.32.7`: Specifies a [recent Kubernetes version](/kubernetes/reference-content/version-support-policy/#scaleway-kubernetes-products).
   - `pools.0.size=2`: Starts with two nodes.
   - `pools.0.min-size=1`, `pools.0.max-size=3`, `pools.0.autoscaling=true`: Enables node auto-scaling.
   - `region=pl-waw`: Deploys in the Warsaw region.

2. Retrieve the cluster ID and download the kubeconfig file:

   ```bash
   CLUSTER_ID=$(scw k8s cluster list | grep demo-cluster | awk '{print $1}')
   scw k8s kubeconfig get $CLUSTER_ID > ~/.kube/demo-cluster-config
   export KUBECONFIG=~/.kube/demo-cluster-config
   ```

   <Message type="tip">
    Alternatively you can copy the cluster ID from the output after cluster creation and install the kubeconfig file using the following command:
        ```bash
        scw k8s kubeconfig install <CLUSTER_ID>
        ```
    </Message>

3. Verify cluster connectivity:

   ```bash
   kubectl get nodes
   ```

   Ensure all nodes are in the `Ready` state.

## Deploy a sample application

> Deploy the [whoami](https://github.com/traefik/whoami) application (a well known demo application to test cluster deployments) using a Kubernetes Deployment and Service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Deploy the [whoami](https://github.com/traefik/whoami) application (a well-known demo application to test cluster deployments) using a Kubernetes Deployment and Service.
```

   ```bash
   INGRESS_IP=$(kubectl get svc -n ingress-nginx ingress-nginx-controller -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
   ```

2. Test the application by sending an HTTP request (replace `whoami.example.com` with your domain or use the IP directly):

   ```bash
   curl -H "Host: whoami.example.com" http://$INGRESS_IP
   ```

3. Simulate load to trigger auto-scaling (optional):

   ```bash
   kubectl run -i --tty load-generator --image=busybox --restart=Never -- /bin/sh -c "while true; do wget -q -O- http://whoami-service.default.svc.cluster.local; done"
   ```

4. Open another terminal and monitor pod scaling:

   ```bash
   kubectl get pods -w
   kubectl get hpa -w
   ```

## Clean up

Delete the cluster to avoid unnecessary costs.

1. Delete the cluster:

   ```bash
   scw k8s cluster delete $CLUSTER_ID
   ```

2. Confirm the cluster is deleted:

   ```bash
   scw k8s cluster list
   ```

## Conclusion

This tutorial has guided you through the full lifecycle of a Kubernetes deployment, from creating a cluster and deploying an application to configuring ingress, enabling autoscaling, performing load testing, monitoring performance, and cleaning up resources. 

> By following these steps, you have explored first steps on how to effectively manage cloud-native applications on Scaleway, with a focus on both manual resource control and automated scaling to build resilient, efficient, and scalable systems.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You have completed the first steps to effectively manage cloud-native applications on Scaleway, with a focus on both manual resource control and automated scaling to build resilient, efficient, and scalable systems.
```
